The Joe Rogan experience. Where we're live right now.
So we'll just let everybody know.
We're talking about Cheech and Chong's album big bamboo.
It actually came with a real rolling paper.
Yeah, huge. Just across the, I think it was across the double, the double album.
Do you have a flip.
Phone? I do.
That. I do that.
I do. I stepped out.
OTG brother.
You figured it out.
Create less data. That's my motto. Yeah. Well, two things, one,
um, your phone is always with you. It's it's notifying and you know,
and I just didn't want to be a part of that anymore. I wanted to, you know,
be a little more connected to life outside so-called.
People.
Well, this is, so this is actually a new flip phone from, um,
T-Mobile Alcatel and it,
it has Caio S which is so it's not really a trackable OOS. Uh,
although Google put an investment. Well, I'm very serious about it. Yeah.
Oh yeah. And you know, so all the apps are all, they're all tracking. You,
they're all doing all kinds of, but initially really just to not be,
you know, a slave to this thing. Uh, and the further I got into it,
the more I liked it, uh, and you don't really need it. Now.
I have a device with me that's off this works as a hotspot,
so I can turn into a hotspot if I really, really, really needed to do something.
But what do you need? Text, phone call.
And if there's something that I really need to look up,
you just turn around and say, Hey, can someone Google this for me? They do it.
There's always someone around.
You texting on that thing. Yeah. Yeah. Do you T nine, is that what you're doing?
Uh, it's like a T nine. It's a little bit better.
It's there their version of predictive texting. Um, yeah,
I really am serious about it. Well, you should be. Yeah.
And everyone should be the pro. I mean, we have all this cool,
all this great technology, but the business model us all. I mean,
six years ago I had the first Amazon echo and like, this is groundbreaking, uh,
Devor act. My, my co-host, he was laughing at me. He's like,
why would you bring a spy device into your house? Said, look,
I'm just testing this out. If had an apple logo on it,
everyone would be losing their right now, but it didn't. And I loved it,
hooked it up to the light. You had all that stuff go.
And then as I started to understand what it was really doing and what is really
communicating all of these things right down to like your Roku remote,
you pick that up, it's communicating with home base. So all this stuff.
So I got rid of all of it.
Well, I just got rid of it. Um, you know,
I was listening to one of Sam Harris's podcast and, uh,
he was talking with someone that said that they had a really good,
great quote that we didn't realize that our data was something
valuable. Right. We didn't realize it was a commodity and it was being sold,
not just a commodity that's kind of value, but insanely fast,
extremely what that's, what we're Facebook makes all their money.
That's where Google makes all their money. Everybody. Yeah.
Everybody make it from your data and you never really understood what you were
doing when you signed off to give that data away when you sign the terms of
agreements and you're like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Whatever.
And nobody breeds through that show.
You know, what's even more egregious is, um,
there's company called plaid P L a I D just sold the visa for, I think,
four or $5 billion. And it's the, um,
the financial back end are kind of like a bridge between all these apps that can
do stuff with your bank account and your bank account. So instead of,
so if you have an app like Venmo or, oh, uh, you know,
name, any payment patch app,
I didn't want to disparage anyone who might be advertising.
Cash.
App. Uh, well, PayPal I'll do it. Uh, PayPal has their own system,
but what you do is you sign up and you literally give this app,
your username and log into your bank account instead of an API or some kind of
programming interface, just lets the app, talk to your bank, accountant,
put money in, take it out. It can do anything. In fact, it is just like scream,
screen, scraping. It's going,
you can go through anything that's connected to your bank account.
It can look at and they do and, and credit karma another great, uh, great, uh,
example of it.
And they are just sucking out all of your information when you pay your bills,
who you pay first. Why, you know, if, if you have, you know,
what your pattern is of, uh, of credit card payment, moving stuff around.
So you think you're just using it as a, as a utility,
but they're tracking your life to you.
You're really concerned about this.
I'm like, well, everybody will get the world they deserve. You know?
So I'm trying to protect myself and people.
I love also the drone can't target me that easily with this, you know?
So protecting you, Joe. Okay.
Thank you. It seems somewhat inevitable, right?
That this connection that we have to technology gets deeper and deeper into our
lives.
But that what disturbs me is that there are these giant corporations that are
not just profiting off of our connection,
but then they're using that money that influence to affect a lot of things in
our culture.
W well, they're enslaving you. So credit karma is a great example, uh,
which also just sold for $7 billion. It was literally,
um, changing your behavior to get a higher credit score.
And this credit score isn't really even an official credit score.
It's the one that they kind of made up. So they'll say,
pay your utilities on time. Then we'll raise your credit score.
Your credit score is higher. Now we can lend you this money. You see.
So they're training people to do certain things like, um,
the progressive app for insurance,
it's training you to drive in a quote unquote responsible manner because you get
discounts. If you don't break too hard, if you're not accelerating,
if you're not breaking speed limits, et cetera.
The GPS. So it knows your speeds and everything is monitoring.
Your breaking velocity, all of that.
Oh yeah. So they take that into consideration every month when.
The point is to train the user to be a good
fiscally good person, whatever that.
Just because you want to save some money.
Well, of course everyone does that and you're going to be,
you're going to be forced into it. Like I just got, um, health insurance,
new health insurance, and they're oh, download the app.
And if you download the app, we'll give you a break. Why?
Because they're going to tell me to do things. This app is saying, you know,
now it's small things, but it'll start telling you, stand up, you know,
move around and if you'd follow it, if you follow it,
then you'll get a discount. So we're really, really becoming enslaved that way.
That's that is definitely a way to look at it.
That's the business model.
And it gets more and more immersive.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah.
Yeah. I didn't know that Progressive's.
App does that. That's all of them do Joe. All of them. The insurance company.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That makes sense. I mean, that's,
that would be the best way to figure out if you're actually a good driver or if
you're just some Dick who gets lucky. Well.
Yeah, I mean, that's kind of the marketing is like, you know,
if you're a good guy to worry about it, but they keep pushing,
they keep pushing, you know,
they'll just keep telling you and you don't have to have the app active for that
to be tracked or monitored.
That was one of the grossest arguments I heard after the whole Snowden thing.
Like, what do you care if you're not breaking the law.
Changing a little bit. I have a 29 year old daughter.
And she definitely had that, uh, that mindset and her friends did,
what's changing. You know, now it's like, okay, we totally get it.
They're tracking all of our. So we're going to,
might not use this or we'll leave the phone at home.
There's a little bit of that creeping in. But in general, it's like crack,
you know, how can you do with, it's not easy. It's I mean, this,
this phone it's sometimes like, ah, I could, but no, it's like,
and I just have to stand back and go,
do I really need to have this information right at this very moment?
Do I really need to do this? And typically, no.
Yeah. When I feel any sort of anxiety or boredom,
I just grabbed the phone. It's just instantly my little,
my little soothing blanket or my little teething.
Absolutely. And, and I play a game with myself.
I'll give myself points. As I'm driving around,
like person walking on the street, holding the phone in their hand,
one point you don't need to actually hold the phone in your hand and women.
Holy crap. They got two phones sometimes with the little, you know,
little button plugs. So it doesn't fall off. They got their bag.
Maybe they got their kid or a stroller. And it's a pop-up,
I'm there doing all and just, they're all over the place all the time.
So it's one point for just holding it to, if you're walking and doing something,
I see a lot of that.
How many points if you have a kid and you're walking and looking at your phone,
that seems like there'll be excellent.
If you're in the car, 10 points. If you're walking with your kid on the phone,
it's five points and you can hit a hundred within five minutes. It's,
it's crazy. It's zombies. When you start to really pay attention to it.
When you're above.
I have a truck and I wanna look down from my truck.
You can see people texting and it's stunning.
How many people are on the highway texting at the same time.
I got rear-ended. Um, uh,
with my trucks say maybe two months ago in Austin, you know,
right after a stoplight. And I was in the lane, I was going to turn left, bam,
full speed. It was maybe 30, 35 miles an hour. You know,
the girls air bags deployed. She's like, I was like, whoa, I was in the truck.
I'm like, yeah. Okay. I get out. And the whole front end is destroyed.
She's days. I'm like, so I'm trying to pry the door open. And yet there,
I see the phone on the floor still open.
And then her excuse was, well, my brake didn't work. Okay. I got my.
Break. Didn't work.
Ever happened. My brakes. Didn't not.
Wherever we were into the same thing. Uh,
there was a slowdown on the right lane and some, some guy plowed right into me.
And I asked the cops. I said, oh, this is five times, five times a day.
I'm sure.
Yeah. It's, it's weird that that sort of snuck up on us.
There's this thing that's incredibly, incredibly addictive. Um, uh, I was, uh,
with my family, uh, this past weekend in Dallas and we were at this event,
as we're walking through this crowd, I'm like, look,
how many people are on their phones? This is crazy. Like everyone, it's just,
you're, you're going through the crowd of the store.
And everyone is just looking at their phone. Just, yeah.
It's like a zombie movie. They don't know there's zombies.
Truly is a zombie apocalypse.
Truly in the weirdest way. I mean,
it gives you a little bit of reward every now and then someone has a funny meme
and you're like, ah, ha.
That's what Silicon valley figured out is that the [inaudible] in response and
the, you know, all the, all the brain impulses you get from a like, or, or,
uh, you know, a retweet or whatever it is, or even just something just blip.
Oh yeah. Ooh. And we have different sounds, bling. Blong all this stuff.